# Raenselle Emberbrow

**Raenselle Emberbrow** is an attractive female dwarf evocation wizard from Millsboro with fiery red hair and disarming blue eyes. She is forward, to the point that she appears callous but her natural empathetic tendencies often bely her need to keep a safe emotional distance from those around her. **Raenselle** was trained by the half-orc wizard **Kuul Y'tul** on the island of *Grgrgrg*. She has loved hard and lost every time&mdash;losing her mother in a freak mining accident, watching her father die at the hands of a necromancer in the mountains of Millsboro. The pain was great and many years ago she distanced herself from the one love left in her life, **Than Rockbottom** by running to *Grgrgrg* to become powerful enough wizard to protect herself and those that she loves. Her dream showing **Than's** death was another blow to her heart.

## It's All About Control

**Control** is Raenselle's survival technique. She controls the elements to protect herself and those that she loves, cares about and has aligned herself with. **Raenselle** is naturally empathetic but needs to control her, and others, emotional attachments so she comes across a callous and uncaring to those that she is close to. However, she is a fierce warrior in battle and loyal to those that she is with.

Because **Raenselle** is so beautiful, she has received a lot of attention. She wants to control any romantic feelings of others and herself by being flirtatious. This allows her to manipulate others without becoming attached.

## History

Raenselle grew up the daughter of **Dainan** and **Sulwyn Emberbrow** in the town of Millsboro. Raenselle's mother died in a freak mining accident when Raenselle was only five years old leaving **Raenselle**. Raenselle and her father **Dainan** were inseparable. After their **Sulwyn's** death, **Dainan** moved out of the town of Millsboro and moved deep into the mountains. **Dainan** never liked mining and the death of his beloved made him disdain mining even more. **Dainan** turned to druidism and lived off of the land in the woods with his lovely daughter. **Dainan** spent many hours wandering in the mountains and forests of Millsboro teaching himself the ways of the druid. His learning was slow and tough due to the lack of a mentor and the infrequent visits to Millsboro where he would trade firewood for druid books. 

### Than and Raenselle

During a visit to the town of Millsboro **Raenselle's** literally ran into **Than** coming out of the Desna Temple. **Raenselle** had just purchased the book *The Way of the Druid* for **Dainan's** upcoming birthday and was flipping through the pages while **Than** was reading *The History of Desna*. **Raenselle** was annoyed at this bumbling, and quite plain looking, cleric. **Than** quickly picked up **Raenselle's** book, read the cover as he handed it to her and said "Hi there, my name is Than. By the name of Desna my day has been blessed with beauty, and I our lives our destined with adventure together."

**Raenselle** brushed him off, told him that he was "crazy" and went to her home in the woods. Three days later **Raenselle** heard a knocking on her front door and there was **Than** standing with a map of the greater Nodington area and a book titled *Druid or Cleric: Choose Your Adventurous Path*. With a sparkle in his eye he handed it to **Raenselle** and said, "So, are you ready for our adventure?" **Raenselle** didn't really know what to do--although his face was disfigured his eyes were mischievous, strong and beautiful. She invited her in and decided that the best thing that she could do was to introduce him to her father ... certainly he would tell this cleric to go away and leave his daughter alone. 

**Dainan** saw **Than** and gave a knowing smile. "Who is this?!!" he asked in his thunderous voice. Without flinching **Than** walked over to **Dainan** put out his hand and said "My name is Than, cleric of Desna. You must be **Dainan** the Druid of the mountains&mdash;The Keeper of the Wild. I have come because Desna has sent me on an adventure and in my visions I see your lovely daughter coming with me." Let's just say that **Than** and **Dainan** hit it off and for the next two years **Than** would visit their home once a month with more druid books and items. **Raenselle** slowly began to fall in love with **Than** as he would talk of his dreams of fighting evil and "The Great Battle" with Urgothoa. His mischievous eyes would start sparkling when he would talk about leaving Millsboro with **Dainan** and adventuring across land and sea. **Than** ignited a desire in **Raenselle** for adventuring, but she felt that she could never leave her father. 

**Than** proposed to **Raenselle**, she accepted but asked to keep it a secret until **Than** finished his clerical studies. This was a delay tactic on her part because she knew that marriage meant that she would leave for adventure with **Than** and would mean leaving her father. She was both excited and terrified simultaneously,

### Dainan's Death

While sleeping **Raenselle** had a terrible fear come over her. She felt that her father was in grave danger. She woke up and told her father of her premonition. **Dainan** said "Everyday could be our last day. I choose to live my life with each day being a gift. If Desna chooses to take me today, I am ready." **Raenselle** spent the entire day with her father with her quarterstaff always in her hand. In the evening, **Dainan** left to go to the forest to gather berries and leaves for a new incantation. **Raenselle** followed him into the forest and out of no where came what must have been a very powerful *necromancer*. **Dainan** attempted his best incantation which didn't seem to phase the necromancer. **Raenselle** jumped out of the forest with her quarterstaff and attempted to attack the necromancer. **Dainan** yelled to **Raenselle** to run. Her rage was too great and she attacked the necromancer. Suddenly everything went black, but before everything went black, she saw the necromancer reach out and touch **Dainan** and he immediately went white and fell to the ground motionless. When **Raenselle** woke up she was invisible and her father lay dead beside her. He had cast an invisibility spell on her to protect her before the necromancer killed him.

### Leaving Millsboro

**Raenselle** was distraught. She did not share the details of the story with anyone, even **Than**. **Raenselle's** heart was dark and broken and it didn't have any space for **Than**. She also felt powerless against the *necromancer* and she vowed never to feel powerless again. **Than** kept on talking about leaving Nodington on their adventure, but **Raenselle's** heart was too broken to care for another. So one night **Raenselle** decided to leave Millsboro on her own to become as powerful as she could.

Knowing **Than's** persistent nature she left a note to him stating how "His callousness of her father's death" made her realize how selfish he was and that he was leaving Millsboro and him forever.

Raenselle moved to *Grgrgrgrg* after breaking off her engagement with Than. There, she sought to escape dwarven culture - escape her dead father, escape her fiance. She found solace in the trading culture of the half-orcs of *Grgrgrgrg*. Yes, dwarves are supposed to hate orcs, and presumably half orcs. But Raenselle didn't really feel like a dwarf. Nor did she feel like a resident of Nodington - Desna has betrayed her too. Instead of leaning on a weak butterfly deity, Raenselle bet on herself and took to the arcane literature. 

She studied every day from the head half-orc wizard **Kuul Y'tul**. Raenselle found herself quite the gifted adept and soon, Raenselle's dedication led her to out skill even **Kuul**. Desna was a far and distant memory. She hadn't dreamed since she left Nodington. Until one day she had the most vivid dream she had ever had. In it, she saw *Than*, surrounded by a dwarven archer, a half-elf longswordsman, a halfling with a beautiful singing voice, a half-elf with a sythe, and an armored pig. *Than* and his party were in grave danger - a necromancer of **Urgathoa** (she clearly recognized the unholy symbol from her studies) and an Aboleth (ditto) were wiping **Than** and his presumed friends. 

### The Dream

In the heat of the battle, Than was killed, his soul clearly leaving his body for the Astral plane. Raenselle's heart skipped a beat. The scene went black but she was still dreaming. Floating in this void, all she could hear was a tender voice. "Raenselle. Than is dead. Nodington is is grave danger. Follow me." Immediately, she woke up and floating on her nightstand, outlined by a purple haze, was an ornate wand. As it hovered impossibly in mid air, rotating around, she noticed the holy symbol of Desna scrawled over all of it. She hesitated. Emotions swirling about Than and Desna. She steadied her pulse and reached out for the wand. Immediately, she was teleported away.


## Family

* **Dainan Emberbrow** (Father): An ex-Milsboro minor who took up the ways of the druid. Dainan had a restless soul who wanted to understand how the world worked. He was gentle and wise. He loved his wife, Sulwyn, who brought beauty and joy into their family. When Sulwyn died in the mines everything in their home reminded him of the beauty and joy that he had lost. He decided to pursue his love of the mountains and forest, leave Millsboro and live in the mountains with his beloved his daughter. He was easily distracted with knew insights and would often wander the forests for hours on his "Wander Walks" figuring out the power of the druid.

* **Sulwyn Emberbrow** (Mother): Sulwyn was craftsman jewler. She had beautiful red wavy hair similar to **Raenselle's** hair. She kept the Emberbow home full of joy and beauty. She could turn anything (a stick, a rock) into something beautiful. Their home was filled with items that she had found that others had thrown away and turned them into beautiful items (e.g., candlesticks from a broken dagger, a table from an old log). Sulwyn died in a freak accident in the mines when she was asked to craft and decorate one of the minors housing camps in the mines. While traveling through the mines to the housing camp the floor broke open to a rushing pool of water and swept her away to her death.

* **Than Rockbottom** (fiancé): See above.

* **Kuul Y'tul** (Half-Orc Wizard Mentor): Kuul was a half-orc wizard in the land of *Grgrgrg*. One day a fiery young female dwarf approached his home and put out her hand and said "Hi. My name is Raenselle. I understand that you are the most powerful wizard of the land. I want to be your student." Kuul was struck. What was a dwarf doing in an orc land. Why would she ask an orc to be her teacher. He chuckled under his breath and said, "Your life will never be the same Raenselle." She responded, "Good! Let's get started!"

* **Bostidrid Windchest** (Desna Priestess): **Raenselle** knew that **Than** and **Bostidrid** were close and shared many secrets. Although **Raenselle** respeced **Bostidrid** she felt that she put **Than** in great danger with her talk of **Than's** 'destiny' in the "Great Battle". **Raenselle** didn't believe in destiny.

* **Cinder** (Raenselle's pseudodragon familiar): When in *Grgrgrg* Raenselle would often go on "Wander Walks" like her father. Seeing her, many animals would approach her and attempt to befriend her. She felt the presence of her father **Dainan** at these times. She resisted the temptation of taking on a familiar for fear of loving and losing again. One day though a red and blue pseudodragon flew out of the trees, perched herself on her shoulder and telepathically said "Hello, I'm Cinder. Ready to go on an adventure with me." **Kuul** had never heard of a familiar picking a wizard, and never a pseudodragon. As much as **Raenselle** tried to be cold to Cinder, she would never leave her.

## Character Strengths and Flaws

**Raenselle** has lost much in life and feels the need to control her emotions and relationships with others. To this end, she portrays herself as *callous* with those that she spends a lot of time with and because of her beauty, she receives a lot of attention from others. Her love has always been for **Than** (in spite of what she told him) and she has no room for anyone else. In order to control 'romantic' relationships, **Raenselle** is a consummate flirt. This allows her to control the emotional relationship with those that find her attractive and keep the relationship under her terms. 

**Raenselle** carries a lot of pain around with her and when she is in battle she is a fierce fighter. Some would say that she is a 'loose' cannon. Often times putting herself in harms way unnecessarily.
